From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists and
Scott Hanselman posted by Carl Franklin.
This is Lauren's Ryan announcing
show number one 21 recorded
live Tuesday, July 8th, 2008. Support for
Hanselman is provided by Tellerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support is also provided
by.net developers journal. The world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott talks
to architect Rick Barraza and
developer Brian Profoto about porting
a flash game to Silverlight.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman,
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And I'm
sitting down today with the
authors of line writer. Line
writer was a physics internet
toy that came out in
2006. And it has recently
been ported from flash to
Silverlight to sitting down today
with Brian Perfetto, from exile
and Rick Barraza from synergy.
Thanks guys for taking the
time to talk to me
today. So this was a
really popular internet kind of
flash game. And I think
that a flash in game
or two words that go
together, you know, just like
Apple pie. I mean, people
always say, Oh, it's a
flash game, but you have
poured it over to us
to Silverlight to that's correct.
That's correct. Is that, is
that a, was that because
did Microsoft come calling and
say, we really want you
to move this? Or was
there no. What was it
that was so compelling about
several light, two that you
would literally rewrite a popular
application, like line writer, a
firm from scratch? Well, I
think the, the main reason
was, was the performance. And
I know, you know, Silverlight
is just, just bounds and
leaps, you know, leaps and
bounds faster than, than flashes.
So performance wise with people
that make tracks that are
thousands and thousands of lines
long, we're able to get
much better performance. We're also
able to do things like
the MSN messaging, music downloading
and playing while you're, while
you're making the tracks that
you just couldn't do in
flash. And that was kind
of a throwaway statement, but
I think it's pretty powerful.
We should back up and,
and talk about that for
a second. You said that
performance in several ideas is
leaps and bounds over, over
flash and you, and you
are both Brian, you're a
flash and a Silverlight developer.
This is actually my first
software project that I've done.
And I'm not too experienced
with flash to tell you
the truth, but just from
seeing the demos that Microsoft
came at, you know, we
had David Chad who came
in and showed us the
demos of the stuff of
whatever, like can actually do.
One of the things that
sticks out in my mind
is a chess program that
he, that he showed us
that could do, you know,
millions and millions of times
calculations, faster and deeper trees
to figure out chess moves
and the flash version of,
you know, the same exact
code Compiled as opposed to
being interpreted. Yeah, exactly. You
know, you actually have a
real backend code base. You
have the.net framework and you
have C-sharp as opposed to,
you know, action script, which
is not as fast. Clearly.
I, I would think I'd
like to answer it there.
Cause at synergy, we actually
do a lot of flash
and flex as well as
Silverlight and WPF. And I've
spent quite a bit of
time and I come from,
from a flash background too.
And I'd probably want to
qualify that just a little
bit by saying that it's
easier to write that flash,
especially if we're coming from
action script one action. It's
a lot easier for people
to start playing in this
professional environment when they're really
not qualified. If people are,
don't have the training that
you find a lot in,
in the Microsoft developer center,
because the barrier of entry
is a bit higher. And
so I think, cause I've
seen and, and, and we've,
we've written and, and we've
seen, and I've experienced very,
very powerful flash games as
well, this particular game, because
we're doing a lot of
relay integration with the physics
and, and just the nature
of it. And the algorithms
Silverlight was a good fit
for this type of problem
in that when you are
dealing with these types of
complexities and you want to
lean on that type of
environment, you definitely have a
lot more support in the
Microsoft developer community, because there
are developers who are used
to eating these types of
algorithms for breakfast. And if
you will also, so they
really care about it. Whereas
you go to flash since
it covers such a broad
audience, and there's so many
different types of people developing
flash, you, you do get,
you do see a lot
of bad flash, but, but
I did just want to
defend that there is actually
good flash out there. Very
powerful flash as well for
this game though. Silverlight was
a good choice. I've seen
a lot of really amazing
flex applications that are doing
a lot of pretty, pretty
powerful stuff. Yeah. But I
think that your point about
this particular application, because line
writer is an application where
people basically paint on the
screen, they draw lines and
then they release this little
man, this little man named
Bosch who rides on a
little sled flash version, you
would draw these lines and
it's keeping track of how
many lines there are. And
once you get over a
couple, several hundred lines, you
know, you're, you're starting to
do a lot of computational
computationally intensive work because you
have basically a physics engine
you wrote, you wrote in
inaction script. But now as
I understand it you've poured
it you've created a complex
physics engine that's entirely in
managed code. Yeah. And you
know, I wasn't Trying to
bash flash or anything as
far as performance goes, but
it definitely having that entire,
you know, real programming language
backend and having the.net framework,
you know, and, and like
you said, it's compiled it
doesn't, you know, you get
so much more, you get
such a better benefit than
you would as if you
wrote it in straight action
script. Yeah, absolutely. I do
agree with that. I definitely
when, when, when someone sits
down and does a show
like we're doing right now,
that is, you know, here
is someone who's, don't feel
like you have to apologize
because you know, flashes are
really good technology service. That's
a really good technology, but
you know, there are things
that some do better than
the others. And I think
that, you know, we're going
to get letters, we're going
to get emails. People say
I did this in flash
and it was awesome. And
you're, you're fully yourself. Cause
I wanted to find out
what, what was it about
Silverlight in this particular instance
that made line writer want
to switch over? Cause it's
a pretty big deal to
say, you know, we're going
to jump ship and we're
going to jump to a
different engine. So there were,
like you said, there's the
physics engine. And then what
are some other features that
you really wanted that you
couldn't do in flash that
you wanted when you moved
over to silver light? Well,
one of the cool things
that you can do in
the silver version is it's
actually got MSN messenger integration,
which of course is not,
not available in actual script
or flash. And what that
allows us to do is
you can create a track.
You can, you know, you
know, make the best track
you've ever made and send
it to your friend through
MSN messenger and say, here,
look at this track and
tell me, you know, tell
me how awesome it is
or tell me how cool
it is. And it just
wasn't possible in flash and
action script Libraries that Microsoft
has on how to integrate
with It's part of, I
mean, it's a, I think
Rick can touch on it
a little more. Cause that
was more of the synergy.
I'm a part of other
developer process, but I'm pretty
sure correct me if I'm
wrong, Rick, but that's just
part of Silverlight, you know,
base base code. It's just
an API that you can
add onto to interface with
MSN messenger. It definitely is
one of the advantages. One
of the things we're excited
about it and Silverlight, and
one of the reasons why,
but for this project, Silverlight
what is the right choices
since they're both Microsoft properties
and of course they're designed
to work well together. Like
the Adobe properties will, but
if we want MSN messenger
and we wanted to integrate
it inside of the rich
experience, then silver light too,
was a very strong choice
for that because that's a
lot of the push that's
going forward. So we were
able to integrate from Silverlight
within the game to bring
in your messenger contacts, to
sign in directly, to send
messages and receive messages as
well as game information. And,
and just as a reminder,
this was ported over and
the interface was built in,
in a relatively very short
period of time. And that
was only possible because of
how closely integrated Silverlight and
the messenger and the live
API work together. . Now
I know that they're there,
you know, the silver lights
of beta technology, and there
are definitely places where silver
light, you know, falls short.
I understand that there are
places in Silverlight where you
get, you know, the library
support isn't there because you
don't have the full base
class library underneath you, but
that you could potentially pull
in different libraries. You could
pull in JavaScript, you could
pull in, you know, we
could talk to HTML. How
many times did you have
to say, well, we need
to stop working Silverlight and
we're going to, you call
out to some JavaScript library
and then jump back in
There. There was a spot
when we were sending information
back again, since this was
a, a game port and
we're building off of a
lot of the great work
and Excel already had with
the flash game, with the
flash client, addressing data pages
on the server side, there's
there's certain data interfaces that
required that aren't currently there
in Silverlight because it was
a beta. So there was
certain types of encoding that
we needed to do through
the Java three JavaScript, but
we, we found the support
to be there. The good
thing is that these, these
are known issues. So we'd
raise them up as we
had, we get some, and
we had a lot of
very good support from Microsoft
and a lot of the
community Jose of who isn't
on the call today, but
he's down from Australia, he's
working closely with Microsoft in
Australia, specifically with this messenger
and a lot of these
encoding issues where we're really
working on that edge, where
Silverlight to is still in
beta. The features are there,
but they're not feature complete
yet, or they're still getting
developed. So you ran into
a couple of those on
this project. And those were
definitely interesting times to, to
be working under such a
quick, quick deadline That was
Jose for, from synergy also
that you were referring to.
Yes, yes. Now, now, now
Rick, you did, you know,
the UI designs. So you,
did you do this in
blend or where did you
design the, the overall user
interface? My, my methodology in,
in Silverlight is, is similar
to how I would do
the exact same work in
flash or flex, where I
usually do a lot of
my comps in Photoshop. And
that's more of probably a
designer preference of what I'm
here with the clients. So
I came up and I
met with Brian and David Haley
and a lot of the
other great guys here at
an exile. And we, we
sketch stuff out. We talked
about what we wanted the
experience to be. I was
able to quickly do some
static comps in Photoshop. Cause
I really wanted to, to
focus on kind of the
look at a very blue
sky level, but they wanted
it to do once we
go from the photo from
the Photoshop comps, I personally
start developing right off the
bat with visual studio and
blend both open up the
same time. I like writing
XAML by hand so I
can block out a lot
of things by hand, bring
in PNGs when needed as
placeholders in blend and also
visual studio. The, the DPI
issue is an issue because
of silver lighter and, and
windows in general, one in
96, DPI and Photoshop automatically
saving for web at 72
DPI. So, so that caused
a bit of a headache
from time to time in
the process. But, but that's
usually how we go. Once,
once we go from static
Photoshop comps, we start building
out interactive skeletons with visual
studio and blend simultaneously. Do
you know how to make
the possible out of the
impossible? Well, the dotnet ninjas
at Telerik do they just
released a huge pack of
web controls, all built on
top of ASP done at
Ajax. That'll help you build
impossibly fast and interactive applications
in no time at all.
They've made the impossible possible
in desktop development. If you
think you can't have a
carousel component and wind forms,
well you can. They're windows
form suite features a super
powerful grid view control and
32 other crazy desktop components.
That'll give you a dazzling
WPF like features, but in
wind forms, they do the
same thing in reporting solutions
with a new design surface,
like nothing else looks just
like graph paper, cause you
advanced page layout capabilities makes
it feel more like a
graphic design software than a
reporting solution. Go check them
out@telerik.com and be a dotnet
Ninja. And thanks for listening.
And how long did it
take you to get used
to XAML? Cause you know,
we had some XAML guys
on last week from contango
and when, when they found
the limitation of the tool,
they immediately dropped down into
basically notepad as well. I'm
hearing that over and over
that if you really want
to exploit XAML, you need
to understand it Since I'm
very comfortable being a developer.
And we also we've been
working with silver light from
the beginning and we were
in the fist pop the
regional and national design challenge.
So, so we've been in
a lot of situations where
we've already needed to be
living and breathing XAML for
quite some time. So when
we started the, an exile
project, I'm kind of already
at that point, professionally aware
where XAML isn't anything new
to me anymore. So I
feel very comfortable writing it
by hand working with it
in blend, but, but usually
most of the time just
going straight in visual studio.
And was there anything about
server lights that, that just
didn't work? Is there anything
you dislike about it? Cause
you know, I've done a
couple of server light applications.
I think I'm more of
a WPF person and you
know, it's a beta technology,
but you know what, what's
bad about it. Everyone says
things that are glowing, but
I'm trying to understand surely
it must fall down in
some way. Brian, do you
want to, do you want
to give your impression? Yeah.
You know, as far as
far as this game was
concerned and I can't speak
for other Silverlight experiences, but
since this is such a
simple game and you know,
it was created basically with,
you know, the object oriented
mindset in the actual ship
code already in place, putting
up to Silverlight, you know,
to see C sharp from
actual script was there's really
no problem with that. I
mean, as far as the
Silverlight is concerned, you know,
coming from Asher script, it
was really easy. There's no,
there wasn't really anything that
I fell down on as
far as the game game
side was concerned. Now I
know maybe we had a
few problems, like, like, you
know, Rick is already touched
on as far as stuff,
not being, being there. Cause
it's the beta version or
you know, not fully. Yeah,
exactly. But as far as
the actual, you know, the
straight game code, it was
there's really nothing that it
didn't do. It was an
easy port and it was
pointing up from actual script.
So it was an easy
street and easy process. Okay.
From the user experience side,
I think it kind of
breaks down into two primary
camps, one, one being a
paradigm of what these experiences
and what tools need to
do to develop it. And
then the other one actually
just being the implementation of
it, where a Silverlight with,
with the XAML, with the
code behind it and having
that distinction there and having
these two different applications, open
up visual studio and blend
it if you really want
to be serious with it.
Cause, cause if you're doing
any type of developing in
itself, blend, as it currently
exists where you're, it's really
just your XAML editor, but
then you want to be
doing the code. You switch
over to visual studio, 2008,
the, the, the visualizer inside
visual studio, 2008, I never
used it myself. I opened
straight into the XAML and
then Paul goes to blend
when required. But that environment
for, for most user experience,
people who we can just
assume are coming from a
flash world, coming from an
Adobe world, if you're doing
rich experiences up until last
year, of course you were
doing it in flash, of
course we were doing in
flexo. It was the primary
technology. So, but you're used
to doing it in, in
one program. You're used to
being in flash where you
can design press one button
and instantly you're in the
code environment. So that took
a while, several months ago,
I made that transition already.
And then all of us,
you know, at synergy, of
course we made that transition,
but that was the first
big hurdle to get over
in that the approach to
it is different. We're not
used to having that separated
out for us design in
one application development and another
application, we've kind of been
used to everything being a
little bit more sloppy, but
a little bit more mixed
together in one primary product.
And the other approach of
course is, is the difference
between time-based animations and frame
based animations. And that's more
again, what have we been
used to over the years?
So that's a, that's another
transition, be it right or
wrong, you know, whatever side
of the debate people fall
on, it still needs to
be acknowledged that for years
and years, most rich experience
architects have, we've needed to
think in terms of frame
based animations and placing things
on the timeline that we
can control a lot of
frame by frame basis. And
so switching over to WPF
and Silverlight, it does require
a mental shift to think
in terms of time-based animations.
No, that's a very, very
interesting point. I think that
that's kind of one of
the, the fundamental things that's
different in moving from flash
in the last time that
I worked in flash, it
was called future wave. So
that dates me a pretty
considerably that may have been
before Brian was born. And,
but I remember all the
onion skinning and it was
definitely a frame based animation
and having many, many things
happening on the screen at
once now, Brian, you had
said, this is a simple
application, but I, I drew
some line writer lines that
were, you know, four or
five, 600 lines. And it
went on for a while.
I thought I was pretty
clever. And then I went
and saw some YouTube videos
where people were making some
unbelievably complex, One of the
big issues that we still
have in the civilized version
that we're trying, you know,
we're working really hard on
trying to figure it out,
but it doesn't look like
there's an easy solution for
it. Essentially the floating point
precision as far, you know,
with round off air and
the way it's handled and
implemented it, action script versus
Silverlight is just fundamentally different.
And it's only slightly different.
I know the problem we're
running into is literally 12
places past the decimal point
are off by one number
and that throws off an
entire track. So when you
have a feature like we
have in the silver light
version where you can import
a track that you've already
made an actual script and
bring it in the physics
act differently and the lighter
the writer can crash at
it at a point that
he didn't crash in the
flash version and your track
is just fundamentally different. So
it's something that we definitely
want to fix because we
want people to be able
to play the same tracks
that they made in flash,
but it's turning out to
be a really tough problem.
That's interesting. Then that brings
up one of the, one
of the more interesting features,
which is what you just
said, that you can import
existing tracks from the flash
system into Silverlight. Now, how
does that work? I mean,
where do these tracks live?
Is this just a matter
of pulling them from the
server? Well, actually the tracks
actually live in the Sol
Sol files, which are the
saved objects or shared objects
from flash. And we literally
pulled that in directly to
Silverlight and I actually wasn't
the one who did that.
So I can't tell you
the specifics about it, unfortunately,
but I believe we go
through, through Java in some
form to Silverlight. Yeah, I'm
pretty sure that's the way
it's handled, but yeah, essentially
Shared object in flash is
kind of like a flash
cookie, right? It's flash is
isolated storage. So I would
guess you'd need to have
a flash applicate. You'd have
to have a flash instance,
a server light instance and
the JavaScript bridge all working
together. Right, exactly. That's exactly
how it was done. Wow.
That's hardcore. It really wasn't
like Bryan, like Bryan was,
was just bringing up a,
when you go into import
it, it was also interesting
because then you have your
domain issues and your security
issues between who can open
who's shared objects. So if
you, if you played the
crop, the classic version of
lion rider that was written
in flash, and you did
shared objects, flash shared objects
on your local machine, and
now you come into the
upgraded beta version of line,
right. Written in Silverlight Silverlight
actually needs to, to talk
to a flash importer because
it's only the flashing Porter
that can, that can legally
have access to the flash
shirt objects, pick it up,
translate the information and then
bridge it over through JavaScript.
So, so it was a
very interesting procedure. They're getting,
getting information that's shared, that's
saved in one format locally
to just another folder, a
couple, a couple folders down
on your Silverlight shared objects
under the new Silverlight data
structure that we had. But,
but it was a very
interesting, it was a very
challenging problem. It definitely underscores
the fact that these two
technologies have their own sandboxes
and they really are going
out of their way to
keep you from messing around
in your sandbox. I mean,
certainly it may be just
right. There are a couple
of folders away on your
hard drive, but we can't
have them talking to each
other, but it does make
me wonder how much JavaScript
did you end up with
is this, this is 99%
Silverlight or how much JavaScript's
in the background they're making
things happen. Well, what was
interesting specifically on the importer
is that there wasn't that
much JavaScript at all required
at all. If you're, if
you remember, or, or anybody
who used to work with
flash a couple versions ago,
having flash play nicely with
JavaScript across all different browsers
was, was actually quite a
challenge, but they've done a
lot of improvements over the
last several versions where JavaScript
can now call in and
flash can register its, its
functions out to JavaScript. Now
Silverlight, although it's only on
version two in beta from
the BA from the beginning,
they've really been focusing on,
on JavaScript integration. So we
have this pro we have
this situation where we had
flash I believe version version
eight of the classic game.
And we have Silverlight version
two, but they're both very
good at interfacing with very
few lines of code to
JavaScript in a stable fashion.
So we're actually doing a
lot of the initiating of
stuff from Silverlight. The bridge
is basically a very simple
handoff and, and relating all
the other work happened in
both flash and in Silverlight.
So it's not as much
JavaScript as you might think,
only because Silverlight did flash
play with JavaScript very well.
Yeah. I think that there's
definitely an expectation of, of
plugins now and now that
the JavaScript Dom's have finally
kind of coalesced around some
agreement amongst the major browsers,
that there's a certain expectation
of, of, of quality and
functionality when it comes to
JavaScript talking to plugins. Now
this works on a Mac,
It does work on the
Mac. I know that that
the Silverlight is supported on,
I don't believe it's support
on power PC, is that
correct? Right. It's only it's
Intel based max. Yeah. Intel-based
but it actually, it's interesting
that, you know, we get
a of complaints from the
people on the forums For,
you know, this new civil
version that it does run
considerably slower on, on the
Mac and I'm even slower
than, than the flash version.
So it's interesting that it's
not, you know, the performance
doesn't enhance the Mac version
where it does, Why that
is or talk to the
team, You know, we had,
I think Jose was down
in yeah. At the Microsoft
he's at the camp break.
Is that correct earlier when
we brought this issue up
and yeah, I think it
was just a known issue
that it's just not, you
know, it doesn't run as
great as it does on
the PC when it's on
the Mac. Hmm. Interesting. Yeah.
And that's not, that's not
a surprise in the Microsoft
or Silverlight community and it
was similar to, again, early
versions in, in flash only
up until recently, I believe
with the new ActionScript three
O compilers, are we really
seeing a lot of increased
performance on, on the flash
experience in, in browsers, in,
in Mac that Silverlight is
duplicating to the same kind
of a procedural path? I
think it just, the experience
slows down on the Mac
for most of these objects
inside of browsers on a
Mac. So I wonder if
that has something to do
with the way that Mac
deals with plugins or, or
what that is because it's
very interesting. I've got two
max, I've got a Mac
book pro, which is an
Intel based Mac, and then
I've got a small Mac
mini and I can barely
watch full screen flash videos
on YouTube, on my Mac
mini, which is power PC
based. I find flash just
brings that thing to its
knees. Yeah, of course, because
it's power PC based. I
can't run, but even on
my Mac book pro if
I go out to a
terminal and run top a
Safari is just killing itself.
If I run anything, that's
centralized based on my, on
my very, very fast Intel-based
Mac. Yeah. I have a
Mac myself since I've been
working so much with WPF
and Silverlight though I dual
boot and I've been doing
into Vista so that I
can have immediate and access
to, to visual studio and
all of my, my Vista
development products here. But I
noticed that the same thing
based on interesting, I'll have
to ask the team about
that. Cause I think that
would be a very interesting
discussion to find out how
much code they're sharing. And
if that is an issue
with Silverlight or if it's
an issue with the plugin
model, how that works. I
don't know a whole lot
about, about the Mac and
how that plugin model operates.
It is a challenge. We,
we find out when the
out in the trenches of
building Rhea and making it
cross browser is that that
benchmark is there. That things
drop when you're switching it
on the Mac under certain
environments, you know? And so
we were trying to figure
out how to, how to
work around it or fix
it. Now, did you guys
have to write any, you
know, if I'm on a
Mac, do this else do
that kind of code. I
spent a lot of time
working in Java, Java applets
at Nike and we up,
we used to call it
everywhere and we ended up
having to go and write
code that literally said this
way. I know from the
game side of things, we
didn't have any, any, any
of that, but Rick, maybe
you can touch on. Yeah,
Yeah. There wasn't an internationalization
issue. And again, I wish
Jose were here cause he's,
he's the one who both
found it and then addressed
it. And I think right
after he addressed it, when
he addressed it through some,
through some code, I believe
silver light, as it continues
to, to push forward on,
on beta, came out with
a fixed, like the exact
same fixed, like a, like
a week later. So it
was kind of funny, but
there are some internet internationalization
issues that working on on
a real game, you know,
cause a lot of us
have played with Silverlight and
WPF and we've done demos
or, or, or done, you
know, projects, but, but line
writer is a very popular
game. It gets hit globally
by many, many, many people.
So the deployment of this
very, very serious exposure Silverlight
application online had a lot
of issues that you really
wouldn't run into another environment.
And one of them has
to do with Silverlight and
how they handle internationalization or,
or their lack of support.
As of right now for
four different keyboard arrangements, for
example, and for different keystrokes
were causing errors and needing
to capture for that. So
I think we were, we
were one of the most
vocal people that, and that
would be Jose on the
phone conference with Microsoft, with
the Silverlight team and getting
a lot of great support,
but kind of saying, you
know, Hey, these are issues
that we're finding again right
here in the trenches pushing
Silverlight at this, at this
level of scope out we're,
we're running into crashes when
somebody has a German keyboard
layout, you know, for example,
or when somebody is doing
this or when somebody is
doing that. So, so that's
an area where it's still
getting flushed out in, into
Silverlight beta interesting perspective. I
would think you would need
full control over the keys
you would need. Did you
end up doing mouse wheel
work? I don't think it's
it's important. We didn't have
any zoom. I believe it
does work in the flash
version, but we didn't, we
actually took it out because
we were seeing weird issues
with, with silver light when
you would actually use the
scroll wheel. I don't know
if you remember that this
Rick, but the actual hotspots
for locations where the mouseover
would be, would be off
by the amount that you'd
scroll down on the page.
I ended up doing and
had a lot of trouble
with it and then ended
up doing it all on
JavaScript rather than JavaScript support
When doing a Silverlight deep
zoom sample. Recently, we just
ended up using a JavaScript
event, sourcer that would then
pass those events down into
Silverlight. And that gave me
really, really reliable mouse wheel
support. And, and you can
get all that sample code.
Now, if you look for
deep zoom and mouse wheel,
it's all JavaScript. That works
really, really well. Interesting. I'm
going to write that down.
Yeah, it was, it was,
it was very interesting. There's
a, there's so many different
things, but even in that
mouse wheel support, you have
to go and check. Are
we on opera? Because opera
pasts is a different Delta
format than if you're on
Firefox. So while the browsers
have wheel event support for
JavaScript, now they haven't agreed
on what format that's going
to look like. So you
can do that translation inside
of the JavaScript, but I
bet you, you could get
your job as your, your
JavaScript mouse wheel back. If
you took a look at
that. So let me think
a couple of last questions
as we get ready to,
to wrap up the show
here, how long did this
take you to do I
get the impression? It was
pretty quick Of the, not
any of the MSN messenger
stuff or the new UX
stuff, but just straight port
from flash to Silverlight took
about a week. It was
very, very short timeline and
that's everything fully functional. And
then the, the rest of
the port, I wanna, I
want to say two months,
Rick. Yeah. W we, we
started around the beginning of
may and we were getting
into the debugging of it
and, and really looking at
getting it released, ready by
the middle of June and
then getting those bugs out.
So yeah, around four, four
to five weeks of the
development of it, or three
or four weeks for the
development of it. And then,
and then several weeks finishing
up a lot of the
issues, getting importing working and
stuff like that. So it
was pretty aggressive. One of
the things that didn't help
and I guess this was
another small technical point was
from beta two. They deprecated
a lot of, a lot
of techniques. So, and I'm
still amazed Brian's one week
port because it was a
substantial amount of amount of
code and the challenge. So,
so we at synergy came
to the table, they had
already done an initial port
of the actual game core
to silver light and based
on, based on what had
been available at the time.
And one of the things
that one of the techniques
was still initialized from XAML.
So around halfway through when
we started getting the, the
beta two bits access to
them, the core, all of
a sudden broke. So that,
that took a couple of
days there because all of
a sudden the, the primary
methodology of implementing UI that
the core had been taken
advantage of the initialize from
XAML was deprecated. And so
all of those sections needed
to be needed to be
modified. So, so that was
kind of interesting. Yeah, definitely
working beta software and it's,
it's, it's moving under your
feet. Exactly. It was funny
to the, when, when Rick
first came here and he
had actually, we gave him
a drop of the code.
He, the first thing that
he said when he came,
when I came in, was
it, it clearly looked like
it had been written actual
script forwarded to a one
point that was overnight. And
then put it again at
one point once overlay to
see the, you know, the
transitions there. Well, you can
write, you know, they say
you can write for Tran
in any language. Right. You
can smell it. Yeah. You
can, you can smell your
action script. If you look
through your seashore. Exactly. And
then having come in from
that background, you could definitely,
you could definitely tell the
action script, cause I've taught
action script to designers and
old school actions for porno.
And we're working on a
series of tutorials with Microsoft
and in moving from action
script to silver light. But,
but there's certain just ways
of problem solving and certain
things you do. And if
you've been programming for a
long time and you're not
at a developer level, but
more of an experienced development
level, it gives you a
lot of it lets you
be very sloppy with your
code. If you want to
just, everything's a VAR, everything's
an object and you don't
need to explicitly do anything
and you can still create
these very beautiful things that
might not have that same
level of data robustness. So,
so when I saw the
code, I go, this looked
like, like it originally came
from action script and then
it was part of the
1.1 and sure enough, it
looked like some of the
things would be deprecated for,
for beta two, but it
was interesting working, working with
beta software. It's fun though.
It's has that wild West
feeling Cool. Well, thanks so
much, Rick Barraza experience architect
at synergy and Brian Perfetto
developer in exile, and you
can check out line writer
at  dot com and
you want to keep an
eye out for the Nintendo
DS version coming out this
August again, guys, thanks so
much for sitting down with
me here. Thank you, Scott.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.